equipment/README.md, before:

# Equiped for Enjoyment

Selecting quality tools for coffee preparation goes a long way
towards satisfaction in brewing and the end result. I recommend buying the
best equipment you can afford. Keep in mind that quality gear is more
enjoyable to use, and often lasts longer as well.

I have used everything covered in this section, and recommend any of the
items detailed here. However, I do not endorse or represent any of the
vendors listed in this guide.

Some of the equipment here is expensive, but it is all top quality, and you
are investing in tools that you might use many times a day. In the end it
will be worth it to get the best gear you can afford.

## Roasting Equipment

I have not moved up to the exciting world of roasting my own coffee beans, so
I don't have any tips for such equipment right now, but stay tuned. I am
definitely planning to do so and will add information about my experiences
to this section.

## Brewing Equipment

![](../_assets/pour-over-carafe-dripper.jpg)

<small>
  A Hario dripper and carafe for making pour over coffee
</small>

> "World barista champions use the AeroPress to make coffee on the folding
> tray tables of airplanes." <br>
> <br>
> — Timothy Ferriss

From the modest little hotel room plastic drip coffee maker, to elaborate
espresso machines costing well north of ten-thousand dollars, the equipment
for brewing coffee is important.

In fact, I consider the following trinity to be the critical considerations
for excellent coffee:

* Raw materials: Coffee beans and water
* **Brewing Equipment**: Grinders, filters, devices (you are here)
* Process: Use as much science in your process as you can

This section focuses on various time tested and battle hardened gadgetry for
perfecting your brew.

### Grinders

![](../_assets/porlex-jp30.jpg)

<small>
  The Porlex JP-30 is compact, efficient, and uses no electricity
</small>



Grinding coffee beans seems a simple enough concept, but you should be aware
that certain types of grinders are preferred. There are a couple popular
styles of grinder for coffee beans, *blade based* and *burr based* grinders.

While blade based grinders are generally less expensive, they produce an
uneven grind and the spinning blade friction can actually heat the beans enough to add negative flavor effects.

A burr based grinder produces a nice even grind, and is the preferred type of
grinder to use for the most delicious coffee flavor.

The electric models are quite fancy and can be very expensive, while manual
models are far less expensive, more compact, and can be used anywhere.

Here are a few models to consider:

1. [Porlex JP-30](http://www.porlex.co.jp/lineup/coffee.html) is a brilliant
   little stainless steel and ceramic manual burr grinder from Japan. You can
   get them from numerous online retailers for approximately $50. They also
   make a mini version that is great for camping and traveling.
2. [Hario MSCS-2TB](http://hario.jp/coffee/grinder.html) another wonderful ceramic manual grinder featuring a glass vessel instead of stainless steel
   as found in the JP-30
3. [Baratza Preciso Coffee Grinder 685](https://www.baratza.com/conical-burr-grinders/preciso-grinder/) very expensive, but professional and well built electric powered burr grinder.
   Can be had for about $300 — perhaps the only electric grinder you'll ever
   need

<div class="alert alert-info">
  Note that burr based grinders need frequent cleaning to operate at their
  full potential. You should consult the grinder's user manual for a
  recommended cleaning cycle. Typically, you'll want to thoroughly clean
  your grinder about once a week.
</div>

**What do you do?**

I use the Porlex JP-30; I prefer the manual action for numerous reasons, such
as using less electricity and doing things the old fashioned way. Getting
used to grinding beans this way also means that I can use the same grinder
in my kitchen and in a tent on a mountainside.

The only negative thing I can report about the JP-30 is that the detachable
handle seems to be made of a soft steel alloy, and the hexagonal hole that
mates with the grinding action can become worn and loose, which causes the
handle to climb, and eventually pop off during grinding.

This could perhaps be improved by making the handle out of a more robust
steel or perhaps even a titanium alloy.

### Kettles

You should prepare your hot water in some kind of vessel that is optimized for
coffee preparation. In a pinch, one could use a stainless steel cooking
saucepan to heat water, or a tea kettle. Microwaves are not recommended for
serious coffee water preparation.

There are some kettles which have proven to be very useful for brewing coffee
with presses and the pour over method, which you are encouraged to explore:

1. [Hario V60 Coffee Drip Kettle "Buono"](http://www.hario.jp/product/list.php?middelclass=3)
2. [Bonavita 1 Liter Stovetop Gooseneck Kettle](http://bonavitaworld.com/products/10l-stovetop-gooseneck-kettle)
3. [Bonavita 1 Liter Digital Variable Temperature Gooseneck Kettle](http://bonavitaworld.com/products/10l-digital-variable-temperature-gooseneck-kettle)

### Presses

1. [Bodum Chambord 8 cup French Press](http://bodum.bodum.com/us/en-us/shop/detail/11053-16/) The classic chrome Bodum is a great
   classic French Press model that brews a fine cup of coffee.
2. [Grosche Madrid 1 Liter French Press](http://www.grosche.ca/product/french-presses/madrid/)
3. [Aeropress](http://aerobie.com/products/aeropress.htm)

### Filters

1. [The Kaffeologie S Filter](http://www.kaffeologie.com/shop/s-filter-for-aeropress-coffee-makers)

### Cups

Needless to say, you should not be drinking fine coffee from a plastic or
polymer cup. Use ceramic, glass, stainless steel, or titanium for cups which
preserve the coffee taste and offer the performance characteristics you
require for daily use.

**What do you do?**

![](../_assets/snow-peak-450-cup.jpg)

I usually drink my coffee from a [Snow Peak 450](http://www.snowpeak.com/tableware/cups-mugs/titanium-double-450-mug-mg-053.html) double walled titanium mug with matching lid.

It's an expensive imported mug, but very well worth it and particularly so for enjoying coffee in the great outdoors while camping or while out on the water.

I will also sometimes drink from typical stoneware mugs as well.

### Scales and Thermometers

1. [ThermoWorks Thermapen Thermometer](http://www.thermoworks.com/products/thermapen/)

Commit message:

note about JP-30 being a bit more rugged

equipment/README.md, after:

# Equiped for Enjoyment

Selecting quality tools for coffee preparation goes a long way
towards satisfaction in brewing and the end result. I recommend buying the
best equipment you can afford. Keep in mind that quality gear is more
enjoyable to use, and often lasts longer as well.

I have used everything covered in this section, and recommend any of the
items detailed here. However, I do not endorse or represent any of the
vendors listed in this guide.

Some of the equipment here is expensive, but it is all top quality, and you
are investing in tools that you might use many times a day. In the end it
will be worth it to get the best gear you can afford.

## Roasting Equipment

I have not moved up to the exciting world of roasting my own coffee beans, so
I don't have any tips for such equipment right now, but stay tuned. I am
definitely planning to do so and will add information about my experiences
to this section.

## Brewing Equipment

![](../_assets/pour-over-carafe-dripper.jpg)

<small>
  A Hario dripper and carafe for making pour over coffee
</small>

> "World barista champions use the AeroPress to make coffee on the folding
> tray tables of airplanes." <br>
> <br>
> — Timothy Ferriss

From the modest little hotel room plastic drip coffee maker, to elaborate
espresso machines costing well north of ten-thousand dollars, the equipment
for brewing coffee is important.

In fact, I consider the following trinity to be the critical considerations
for excellent coffee:

* Raw materials: Coffee beans and water
* **Brewing Equipment**: Grinders, filters, devices (you are here)
* Process: Use as much science in your process as you can

This section focuses on various time tested and battle hardened gadgetry for
perfecting your brew.

### Grinders

![](../_assets/porlex-jp30.jpg)

<small>
  The Porlex JP-30 is compact, efficient, and uses no electricity
</small>



Grinding coffee beans seems a simple enough concept, but you should be aware
that certain types of grinders are preferred. There are a couple popular
styles of grinder for coffee beans, *blade based* and *burr based* grinders.

While blade based grinders are generally less expensive, they produce an
uneven grind and the spinning blade friction can actually heat the beans enough to add negative flavor effects.

A burr based grinder produces a nice even grind, and is the preferred type of
grinder to use for the most delicious coffee flavor.

The electric models are quite fancy and can be very expensive, while manual
models are far less expensive, more compact, and can be used anywhere.

Here are a few models to consider:

1. [Porlex JP-30](http://www.porlex.co.jp/lineup/coffee.html) is a brilliant
   little stainless steel and ceramic manual burr grinder from Japan. You can
   get them from numerous online retailers for approximately $50. They also
   make a mini version that is great for camping and traveling.
2. [Hario MSCS-2TB](http://hario.jp/coffee/grinder.html) another wonderful ceramic manual grinder featuring a glass vessel instead of stainless steel
   as found in the JP-30
3. [Baratza Preciso Coffee Grinder 685](https://www.baratza.com/conical-burr-grinders/preciso-grinder/) very expensive, but professional and well built electric powered burr grinder.
   Can be had for about $300 — perhaps the only electric grinder you'll ever
   need

<div class="alert alert-info">
  Note that burr based grinders need frequent cleaning to operate at their
  full potential. You should consult the grinder's user manual for a
  recommended cleaning cycle. Typically, you'll want to thoroughly clean
  your grinder about once a week.
</div>

**What do you do?**

I use the Porlex JP-30; I prefer the manual action for numerous reasons, such
as using less electricity and doing things the old fashioned way. Getting
used to grinding beans this way also means that I can use the same grinder
in my kitchen and in a tent on a mountainside. Since it is all metal
construction, it's more rugged than other similar grinders too.

The only negative thing I can report about the JP-30 is that the detachable
handle seems to be made of a soft steel alloy, and the hexagonal hole that
mates with the grinding action can become worn and loose, which causes the
handle to climb, and eventually pop off during grinding.

This could perhaps be improved by making the handle out of a more robust
steel or perhaps even a titanium alloy.

### Kettles

You should prepare your hot water in some kind of vessel that is optimized for
coffee preparation. In a pinch, one could use a stainless steel cooking
saucepan to heat water, or a tea kettle. Microwaves are not recommended for
serious coffee water preparation.

There are some kettles which have proven to be very useful for brewing coffee
with presses and the pour over method, which you are encouraged to explore:

1. [Hario V60 Coffee Drip Kettle "Buono"](http://www.hario.jp/product/list.php?middelclass=3)
2. [Bonavita 1 Liter Stovetop Gooseneck Kettle](http://bonavitaworld.com/products/10l-stovetop-gooseneck-kettle)
3. [Bonavita 1 Liter Digital Variable Temperature Gooseneck Kettle](http://bonavitaworld.com/products/10l-digital-variable-temperature-gooseneck-kettle)

### Presses

1. [Bodum Chambord 8 cup French Press](http://bodum.bodum.com/us/en-us/shop/detail/11053-16/) The classic chrome Bodum is a great
   classic French Press model that brews a fine cup of coffee.
2. [Grosche Madrid 1 Liter French Press](http://www.grosche.ca/product/french-presses/madrid/)
3. [Aeropress](http://aerobie.com/products/aeropress.htm)

### Filters

1. [The Kaffeologie S Filter](http://www.kaffeologie.com/shop/s-filter-for-aeropress-coffee-makers)

### Cups

Needless to say, you should not be drinking fine coffee from a plastic or
polymer cup. Use ceramic, glass, stainless steel, or titanium for cups which
preserve the coffee taste and offer the performance characteristics you
require for daily use.

**What do you do?**

![](../_assets/snow-peak-450-cup.jpg)

I usually drink my coffee from a [Snow Peak 450](http://www.snowpeak.com/tableware/cups-mugs/titanium-double-450-mug-mg-053.html) double walled titanium mug with matching lid.

It's an expensive imported mug, but very well worth it and particularly so for enjoying coffee in the great outdoors while camping or while out on the water.

I will also sometimes drink from typical stoneware mugs as well.

### Scales and Thermometers

1. [ThermoWorks Thermapen Thermometer](http://www.thermoworks.com/products/thermapen/)
